In the criminal
justice system...
sexually-based offenses are
considered especially heinous.
In New York City,
the dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies...
are members of an elite squad
known as the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
I'm Winfield, Citizen Watch. I
was on patrol. Got here first.
You see anything?
Just the body.
Thomas Marchek, pedophile.
You say Marchek?
Yeah.
You know the guy?
He raped a
seven-year-old girl.
Left her cut up and
unconscious in a drainpipe.
Yeah, I know.
And how are you so tuned in?
I'm just doing my job.
All right. Sir, did you
touch the body? I know better.
Not even to check for vitals?
Shorteye's head was
practically blown off.
Look, if you want to talk to me,
here's a card with my numbers...
home and work.
It's nice to meet you.
Five years ago,
I put this guy away.
You SVU?
Yeah, Benson, Stabler.
Who called us?
You got three shots,
point blank to the face.
Nine mil.
Wouldn't be surprised if the
slugs turn out to be hollow point.
Made quite a statement.
And a mess.
Now, why'd you call us in?
This is a homicide.
Chief of Detective
reassigned by request.
You sent the guy up. I guess
that's why you're catching.
This is a dead ex-con.
This is not a victim
of a sex crime. Was he raped?
Do his wounds suggest
anything sexual in nature?
I feel for you, pal,
but this comes from above.
Your problem's not with me.
Who made the request?
A Captain Cragen.
Elliot, give him a chance
to explain.
Why?
Excuse me?
Thomas Marchek kidnapped
Corrine Branson...
tortured her at knifepoint,
and left her for dead.
I read the file.
I was ready to cap
that dirtbag myself.
Now you expect me to
work his homicide?
One Police Plaza does.
They asked me to take it,
I said "yes".
To polish your
political apple?
It's delicate territory and
you're familiar with the players.
I'll fill Homicide in.
You go talk to the parents.
I'll talk to the parents and tell
them the good news about Marchek.
But I am not telling them
that they're suspects.
According to the Chief, the
girl's mother threatened Marchek...
at the last parole hearing.
She should've threatened
the Parole Board...
Are you finished?
I don't want this case.
I'm through explaining myself to
you. You caught it, you make it.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I begged the Parole Board
to keep him in prison...
but they wouldn't listen.
Lindsay, why didn't you call me? You
know I would have testified for you.
I thought it was
just a formality.
I never dreamed they
would actually let him out.
We don't want to cause you
any more heartache.
But I have to ask you.
I'm a suspect.
You threatened to kill him.
I was angry.
Can you blame me?
No.
Where were you last night?
Right here with my child. I
won't let her out of my sight.
And your husband?
We're divorced.
Where does he live now?
I don't believe you people.
Haven't we been
through enough?
Hi Corrine. It's me, Elliot.
Do you remember?
I almost didn't recognize you. It's
been so long. You've grown a lot.
How've you been?
I remember you.
You caught that man.
Yes.
Thank you.
You never have to
thank me for that.
Why aren't you at school?
I have school here.
My mom teaches me.
Why?
I don't like it when
people look at me.
I'm ugly.
That's not true.
Yes it is.
It's a shame about Marchek.
He was a good driver. He
never tried to skip his shift.
You know him well?
Not to speak of.
We drove together
a couple of times.
What'd you talk about?
Usual stuff.
Women troubles, sports...
how the union ain't
what it used to be.
Marchek had problems
with women?
Yeah, some ex of his
was stalking him.
He said he had a bad break-up.
He was with a new one and
the old one couldn't let go.
You ever see his former lady?
Yeah, hanging around once or twice.
Man, I told him to call the cops,
but he said it wasn't worth it.
Would you recognize her
if you saw her again?
Blonde, little over 5'.
Drove a light blue Honda.
She's kind of old for him, though.
Maybe that's why he couldn't shake her.
Did he mention a more
recent girlfriend?
Yeah, Gloria something.
Check with the office.
Marchek said he didn't have family,
so she's probably his emergency notify.
Thanks.
Gloria, how long were you
and Thomas Marchek dating?
About four months.
We were already talking
about marriage, kids.
Can't this wait?
When was the last time
you saw him?
Night before last.
What about last night?
I was working.
Where? Club Devinyl on 34th Street.
I get off around 3:00.
Tommy had left for work
by the time I got home.
He ever talk about
his ex-girlfriend?
I didn't know he had one.
He mention anyone following him?
Maybe giving him a hard time?
Yeah, there was this one guy.
Said he was with the Citizen Watch.
Put up flyers with Tommy's
picture on it.
He even followed us into
a restaurant and harassed us.
And you are? Louise Durning.
I am a friend of Gloria's
And I have witnessed the abuse
they've had to endure.
What kind of abuse?
He called Tommy names and called
me worse for being with him.
They couldn't go out without
being assaulted by this man...
or one of his storm troopers.
Nobody saw the good
in Tommy but me.
You know what he did?
He changed.
It didn't bother you?
I loved him.
Can't you see she's in enough pain?
Where's your compassion, for God's sake?
With the little girl Tommy
raped and cut.
You got to be kidding.
Mr. Branson, just answer the
question. I was in Chicago on business.
You want the receipts? I can prove
it. No, that won't be necessary.
Actually, it is.
You of all people.
Trust me, I don't like this
any better than you do.
Thank you.
You talk to Lindsay, Corrine?
Yes.
How're they doing?
Your daughter seems lonely.
Do you get to see her often?
Not as often as I should.
I can't take Lindsay
blaming me anymore.
Josh, it's not your fault.
When that monster Marchek raped my
little girl, he killed a part of me.
Your daughter is
still alive...
and she misses you very much.
Her mother won't let me
near her.
She says they don't get
out very often.
She shut herself off.
I've tried to talk to her.
I even bought her a car, hoping she'd take
Corrine to the country where she can...
play outside and feel safe.
What kind of car?
An Accord.
Why?
Does Lindsay take Corrine with her
when she goes out to run errands?
No, the neighbor across
the hall stays with her.
A sweet lady
named Virginia Koeler.
You think Lindsay
killed the bastard?
We don't think anything, Mrs.
Koeler. We're talking to everyone.
You take care of Corrine when her
mother is out. Is that correct?
I'm one of the only people
she trusts.
After the terrible thing that
happened, she's very careful.
You baby-sit Corrine last night? Why?
Mrs. Koehler, do you think Lindsay
murdered her daughter's attacker?
No.
Then tell us the truth.
Did you stay with Corrine
last night?
Yes.
Lindsay went to the
grocery store.
And what time did she return?
About 11:00.
She's all that
little girl has.
Please leave her alone.
The DMV lists Lindsay Branson as
the owner of a '98 blue Honda Accord.
No tickets. No warrants.
Any registered weapons?
A Smith and Wesson 9mm registered to
Josh Branson, but not to the ex-wife.
Pick her up. Okay, why
are we doing this, now?
The gun is registered to the husband.
They're divorced. They live apart.
I want her in a line-up.
If Marchek's co-worker can ID Mrs. Branson
as the stalker, then we'll play it out.
This is based on
circumstantial evidence.
We've twisted suspects
in the wind for a lot less...
than what we've got on
paper right now.
Those suspects...
didn't have a daughter who was
raped and had her face sliced up.
She clears the line-up,
she goes home.
I'm not doing this.
Elliot.
No. You know something...
this woman's already
living in hell.
And now you're asking me to
drag her in like a criminal.
I'm not doing it. This
isn't your call, Detective.
Counselor, you know something,
I don't answer to you.
You answer to me.
And I suggest you adjust your attitude
before I write you up on insubordination.
I just don't think we have
enough evidence. I say we do.
Either get right with that
or go home.
Can you identify the woman who
was following Tommy Marchek?
Number three. That's her.
Take your time.
What for? It's number three.
Can I go now? I got a lot
of deliveries to get out.
Yeah.
Search warrants were issued
for the premises and the car?
Munch and Fin are on it.
Are you gonna be able
to do the interrogation...
or do I need to get
another set of detectives?
It's not a problem.
Can I get you anything?
No.
Do you understand your rights? Yes.
Do you want a lawyer?
Lindsay, I really think you
should have a lawyer present.
I'm glad he's dead.
I thought I'd have
some closure...
but it hasn't made
a difference.
Corrine is still afraid to go out and
then my family is still in shambles.
Did you follow Mr. Marchek?
Yes.
To his home, his job, even to his
girlfriend's apartment on Lexington.
Then each time I saw his face,
I saw him raping my little girl.
How long had you been
stalking him?
Since the day he got out of
prison, I've dreamed of his death.
What I would do to him.
How I would make him suffer!
Tell me what happened
last night.
I followed him...
from, um...
from the meat market
to some bar in Alphabet City.
And I waited for him outside.
And did you have a gun?
I had my husband's.
I followed him for several
blocks on foot...
his back made a
perfect target.
But I couldn't do it.
Every night I had the chance
and I just, I couldn't do it.
And then somebody else
did it for me.
Yeah.
I don't have a confession.
You don't need one.
Police. Step aside.
Thank you.
Hey.
Olivia, I'd like you to meet
a recent parolee and rapist...
Craig Moss, three shots
to the head.
If Cragen finds out I called
you... I got it off the scanner.
What's the deal here?
Check out this flyer.
That's him. Second guy.
Same MO, 9mm,
hollow-point slugs.
Guess that lets Lindsay
off the hook.
Puts us on the trail of a
serial killer.
Did he suffer?
No, it was quick.
But not quick enough,
right, Detective?
Your son was murdered.
We're trying to find out
who did it.
What do you care?
It's our job.
And my cross to bear.
Mrs. Moss, this isn't about you. No?
If my son hadn't been born, those
two women never would've been raped.
I ask myself what I did wrong
and have no answers.
Did your son mention anything about
having trouble with anyone lately?
There were sex offender flyers
all over the neighborhood...
obscenities spray-painted
on my door and...
the man who beat him
to a pulp last week.
Did your son tell you
who this man was?
No, but I can guess.
The owner of the
corner market, Pulham.
He hated Craig.
Had half-a-dozen flyers pasted
in the store window.
I hated what he did...
but I loved my son.
He did his time...
was raped in prison
and got HIV.
He suffered, too.
My brother-in-law said
to expect you.
Your brother-in-law? Yeah,
he's a patrol cop in Queens.
Figured my little run-in
with Craig the pervert...
would put me at the
top of your list.
According to Moss' mother,
you beat the hell out of him.
I kicked him out of my store.
And kept kicking?
He's a rapist.
Was.
Look, I caught him checking out a couple
of teenage girls who came in for sodas.
What am I supposed to do,
wait for him to rape them, too?
Where were you last night
between 8:00 and 10:00?
Right here.
I'm open till 11:00
every night.
And I got plenty of customers
who'll vouch for that.
Who enlightened you about
Mr. Moss' background?
A Citizen Watch guy came
in here with a flyer...
asking me to post them
on my window.
I asked for extras.
He said this guy Moss
raped a mother of four.
Predators like him,
they never stop.
I run a family business. This
kind of scum ain't welcome here.
You have any idea where we might be
able to find this Citizen Watch guy?
Yeah, sure, they rent a space in the
Rec Center, couple of blocks down.
They do a good job, too. I haven't
had a break-in in two years.
Hello, Detectives, good to
see you again.
This is not a social visit.
We'd like you to stop
distributing these flyers.
We're not breaking any laws.
That remains to be seen.
Mr. Pulham assaulted a man
on your flyer.
And now two of them are dead.
I'm sorry to hear that.
We only try to inform
and prevent.
You're inciting people to
break the law. To commit murder.
That's a long reach, isn't it?
Is it?
We've got two dead men...
flyers that you've
distributed...
and Citizen Watch members
at both crime scenes.
Are we suspects?
We'd like a list of your members,
names, addresses, phone numbers, please.
You know, we're only
protecting ourselves
against these rapists
because you won't.
The system puts them in our
neighborhoods and then turns its back.
And where exactly would you
like them to go?
Hell's good and hot.
Thank you.
The Chief's idea of a joke?
Much as I hate it, there's
nothing we can do.
Protecting rapists now.
To shield us from lawsuits...
and to keep anyone else on
that flyer from being murdered.
Now the remaining two parolees
on the list...
Trent Wills and James Campbell, are
to get round-the-clock protection.
Captain, what are we
supposed to do...
about the honest, hard-working
people who actually need us?
These men have rights and we
have jobs to do. Anything else?
Ballistics came back on
Lindsay Branson's gun.
No match.
But we're looking at
the same 9mm for both stiffs.
And we're running background checks
on all the Citizen Watch members.
Well, this guy Winfield sounds
especially ripe.
Talk to the two parolees. See if
any of these "concerned citizens"...
were keeping too close a watch
on either one of them.
We'll take Wills.
And we'll take the other one.
Elliot?
How far you gonna push this,
Captain?
No, since I assigned
this case...
you have questioned my orders
and disrespected my command.
Now, I've cut you some slack
because of our relationship...
but this well is running
pretty dry. Are we clear?
Yes, sir.
I get enough crap from
the politicians.
I don't need any from
my own detectives.
I need a break, Elliot.
Find me one.
Police protection. Does this
mean I get a ride to work?
No.
Anybody been stalking you?
Giving you attitude?
Yeah.
Two fat, ugly, old broads
with matching windbreakers.
I doubled back and spooked
the hell out of them.
A fun time was had by all.
Did you get their names?
Yeah.
Fat and Fatter,
Winfield's little army.
Any babes in this
police detail?
Been a long time.
Getting kind of anxious.
Watch me, Daddy!
Your mother-in-law said
we'd find you here.
We try to live as normally
as possible...
but that watch group is making
our lives miserable.
After they put me on that
flyer, my boss fired me.
Didn't want a pervert
selling insurance.
Can you blame them for being
afraid? I'm not a danger to anybody.
Would Sandra Woodly agree?
I was 22.
I met her in a club.
I wasn't thinking a 15-year-old
could even be out that late.
She said she was 19.
Was that your defense?
Look, I didn't deny any of it,
I went to prison.
What more can I do?
A protective detail will begin
at midnight...
and continue around-the-clock
until the killer is found.
You're saying that
we're at risk?
Look, you're on the flyer, just like
the other two rapists who were killed.
So?
Has anyone from the watch
group been harassing you?
Sam Winfield.
He even tried to stop me from enrolling
my daughter in his kid's school.
Who the hell does
he think he is?
All roads lead to Winfield.
Who is this guy?
An ex-cop from Albany.
He took an early retirement
after a bad shoot.
It doesn't prove anything.
But I had a heart-to-heart with his
partner at the time of that bad shoot.
It involved a rapist.
He also has an arsenal
of weapons registered...
including a 9mm.
Marchek's girlfriend said a man from
the Citizen Watch was harassing them.
And her friend said it
got pretty heated.
Show them both the
photo array.
If they can ID him, let's invite
him down here for a little chat.
There you go. She's doing
so well.
She's a brave little girl.
Thank you.
I'll see you next week.
Louise Durning?
Yes?
I'm Detective Benson. This is
my partner, Detective Stabler.
You're here about Gloria?
Come this way.
We understand you were with
Gloria and Thomas Marchek...
when a man from Citizen Watch
approached you.
Yes. In the restaurant.
Do you think you'd remember
this man if you saw him again?
I think so.
Okay, can you tell us if he's
one of these?
Yes, he's this one.
Do you think he had something
to do with Thomas' murder?
Do you remember what he said
in the restaurant?
Nothing to me.
He showed Thomas his gun
and told him to watch out.
I already gave a statement.
What more do you need?
You said Sam Winfield, the
guy from the community watch...
harassed you and Tommy.
He followed us everywhere.
Even came in here a couple of times,
went straight to Glo's station.
I tried to avoid him, but he complained
to my manager. I had to wait on him.
Did he say anything?
Awful stuff about Tommy.
He said if I knew what was good for me,
I'd leave him and never see him again.
One time Tommy came in
and he was talking to Glo...
I thought for sure there
was gonna be hell to pay.
What happened? Tommy
grabbed Winfield by the shirt
lifted him right out of
his chair.
Winfield split Tommy's head
open with an ashtray.
Said if he ever touched him
again, he'd kill him.
Finally caught up with Gloria.
She ID'd Winfield from
the array...
and confirmed that he
threatened Marchek with a gun.
Now she's scared for her life.
At the rate this guy's going, we're gonna
have to assign another protection detail.
Dispatch just got a call from the
Campbell residence. Shots fired.
Scared the hell out of my wife
and little girl.
And where are they now?
I sent them to a motel where
they'll be safe.
Not that you give a damn what
happens to me or my family.
That's not true, Mr. Campbell.
Well, then where was that
protective detail that you promised?
The shift doesn't start
until midnight.
How convenient.
Did you see who
fired the shots?
I didn't have to.
I saw Winfield standing across the
street, staring at the apartment.
A few minutes later
the window explodes.
Had he threatened you?
Coming up the street he
grabbed me,
and told me to get out of
the neighborhood.
When I told him to
go to hell...
he said if I didn't listen, I was
gonna end up like the other two guys.
Okay. When the protective detail gets
here, we'll escort your family back home.
No, thanks, Detective...
they're safer where they are.
I worked at the shop until
10:00. Then I went home.
You go out for dinner break?
About 6:00.
Where'd you go?
For a walk.
James Campbell said that you wound
up at his place, threatened his life.
I tried to save his neck,
but he wouldn't listen.
Instead he gets in my face,
calls me a stalker.
I don't have to take that from
anyone, least of all a stinking rapist.
That why you took a
shot at him?
I didn't shoot at anybody.
He saw you outside his window.
He was mistaken. Like I said,
I was at work.
Anybody with you?
My partner Paul Cormick.
We're rebuilding an engine,
the block is cracked.
How many guns do you own?
Five...
counting the engraved Marine Dragoon.
But you already know that, don't you?
You expecting a war?
I shoot competitively.
But you know that, too.
Tell you what...
why don't the two of you
tell me what you want...
and I'll tell you if I'm gonna
make it easy...
or I'm gonna make it hard.
Give up your 9mm for testing.
No.
Then why do we have to
go through this, then?
You gonna play us, we'll
just keep right on digging.
Then grab a shovel, brother.
No probable cause, no warrant,
no guns.
We know that you followed
these guys.
And no one filed a complaint,
so what's the problem?
The problem is anyone you
don't like, they wind up dead.
Pedophiles and rapists.
Don't waste your pity.
You used to be a good cop,
what happened?
Are you guys gonna charge me
with anything?
Or can I go home now?
That was Munch.
Cormick's wife puts her
husband at home by 9:00 pm.
Well, there goes
Winfield's alibi.
We'll need warrants to cover
the garage and home.
Cabot's already on it.
Take a look at this.
I called Winfield's captain
in Albany.
Got the off-the-record on
his bad shoot.
Turns out the gun the perp was
carrying had no prints.
It was a drop?
Serial number was filed clean.
Winfield had eight
commendations up to that point?
That's why they offered him
early retirement.
The case he was working on
was real bad ass.
Captain said it ate him
to the bone.
The warrants are on the way.
I already sent Munch and Fin
to the residence.
You two go to the business.
The unis'll meet you there.
What the hell is this?
Sorry, Sam. I couldn't
stop them.
So much for professional
courtesy.
You brought this on yourself.
Just another day on the
thin blue line, Detective?
You better watch out.
Yeah.
Or you'll wind up just
like me.
Well, thanks for the advice.
Just let us do our job
and we'll be out of your hair.
You all right?
Yep.
I'll get the first-aid kit.
Detectives, found this
in an oil drum out back.
Mr. Winfield, I won't forget
about that first aid kit.
You're under arrest for the murder
of Thomas Marchek and Craig Moss...
and the attempted murder
of James Campbell.
You have the right to remain
silent. I know my rights.
Well, then, let's get out
of here.
Ballistics report came back
positive for the Campbell attack.
But it's no match on
the murders.
You sure?
Tested it twice.
We don't have the
murder weapon.
Then we don't have a case.
The most I can charge him with is
attempted murder on Mr. Campbell.
Unless you play hardball.
What are you suggesting?
You could threaten to kick up enough
dust to re-open the Albany investigation.
Look, wait a minute,
I read the file.
There was a kid in the car and
he thought the perp was carrying.
The skell had already raped
and tortured the kid's mother.
I know the facts. But we've
got two murders to close.
So we pad our win column at
the expense of a good cop...
because he made a
judgment call?
If he killed those men, I don't give
a damn how many commendations he had.
He's a murderer and we're
going to nail his ass.
Now do you have a
problem with that?
All I'm saying... What? What
are you saying, Detective?
I think I understand him.
And I'm asking for a
shot at him.
You know, these rooms all
look the same.
They've got one up in Albany
with a window just like this one.
Same rusty gratings,
same size.
Rooms even smell the same.
How long on the job?
Sixteen years.
Solid, from what I hear.
I was on my way to
being Captain.
Then Alan Cryter came along.
I had my own Alan Cryter.
Insurance salesman. Ran his business
out of a converted garage in Queens.
Well liked. Would invite the neighborhood
kids up for ice cream and stories.
One day, a six-year-old girl
goes missing...
from a playground in Soho.
Actually...
long story short,
we find her...
underneath the floorboards of his
office, along with three other children.
All of them in various
stages of decomposition.
But he is gone,
and I'm left...
with a cold case.
And two years nothing
but silence...
and headaches.
I developed these
debilitating headaches.
I wasn't sleeping a lot.
I kept having these
recurring nightmares...
where my own children would be
underneath these floorboards...
that I couldn't pry up.
And then one day I'm just gassing
up my car in Chelsea and there he is.
And before I know it
I've got his face...
sandwiched between his windshield
and the muzzle of my gun.
And I'm yelling, "Freeze."
And I realize that I'm yelling
at myself.
Because I can't stop my finger
from pulling the trigger.
And I'm praying for him to blink.
I'm praying for him to twitch.
Just do something to give
me an excuse.
And then I see a face
inside of his car.
It's...
a girl, this beautiful,
little six-year-old girl...
these big eyes.
I figured she'd seen enough.
Yeah, she'd seen enough.
Your headaches go away?
Yeah.
It's the only difference
between us.
I didn't see the kid's eyes.
The perp pulled him from the
car and used him as a shield.
After what the loser had done
to the mother and the sister...
I had no doubts what he'd do
with the boy.
Anyway, the boy bit him
and ran. I shot.
I could have sworn that
son of a bitch had a gun.
But maybe...
it was just wishful thinking.
We've got to do the
right thing here.
I didn't kill those men.
I handed out flyers to inform
and prevent. That's all.
James Campbell?
James Campbell was next
on the list.
I figured if I scared him off,
at least he'd be alive.
Anything else you can tell me?
On the night of Marchek's
murder, I was on duty.
I heard the shots.
I ran towards the sound.
When I got there, I saw a
woman fleeing the crime scene.
Description?
5'6", brown hair, 120-ish Ibs.
Black leather jacket, flapping open,
blue sequined top, dark pants...
boots.
Why didn't you tell us
this before?
When I saw it was Marchek, I
figured he got what he deserved.
Can you do me any favors
on this?
Gloria's not here, Detective.
She's off today.
But she was on Thursday.
Yeah. Why?
Her time card said she
worked till 3:00 am.
So?
She work the whole night?
Must've.
How well did you know her
boyfriend? Not very well.
She said he was nice.
Which she deserved after the
long line of scuzzballs...
who mooched her money
and beat the crap out of her.
It was sad when they broke up.
Broke up? When did
that happen?
About a week ago.
Glo took it hard.
I think she still loved him.
Missed a lot of work.
Almost got canned.
But she worked until 3:00
last Thursday?
You checked her time card.
We have a witness that
says otherwise.
Unless you want to be charged
as accessory to murder,
I suggest you tell us
the truth.
Gloria ducked out about 11:00.
Where'd she go?
I don't know.
Did she come back?
No.
Manager didn't miss her, so I
punched her card when I left.
Did she work night before
last? It was her night off.
Look, I know Gloria.
She's a little messed up,
but she's a sweet girl.
She wouldn't hurt anybody.
You sure about that?
Okay, John, thanks a lot.
Seems Gloria's alibi
just went south.
Here it is.
Gloria!
Detectives Benson and Stabler.
We spoke this morning.
Wow.
She said that she'd be here,
as if she could really hear me.
Gloria?
Damn inconsiderate.
Did you get any answer?
And who are you?
Earl Zito, I live below
in 2-C. Listen to that.
How long's this been going on?
Over an hour.
Yeah, I called the super,
but you know, it's...
Stay there please.
I hope the deadbolt isn't on.
Olivia!
Call for a wagon. I got
a pulse here. Very faint.
2414 to central.
Got a 1054
attempted suicide...
at 28 Lexington Avenue
and 26th Street.
Put a rush on the bus.
Grab another towel.
I'm making a tourniquet.
Bus is on the way.
Okay. Here's the tourniquet.
Can you tie the other
one for me?
We need to get her downstairs.
Gloria, can you hear me?
Stay with me.
She's a lucky young woman...
another minute or two and
she would've bled to death.
Can we talk to her now?
Before you do, I need to inform
you about your potential exposure.
To what?
The paramedics found Viracept, a protease
inhibitor, in Gloria's medicine cabinet.
She confirmed that
she's HIV-positive.
Since there was a lot of blood
at the scene...
Elliot. Okay, Doc.
Thanks for the heads-up.
We should talk to Gloria
while she's still awake.
You should've just let me die.
That's not an answer.
How do you know?
Did you hurt yourself
because of Tommy Marchek?
Yes.
Because he broke up with you?
I broke up with him.
Why?
Son of a bitch gave me HIV.
Is that why you killed him?
Isn't that enough?
And Moss?
Who?
Craig Moss.
I killed him, too.
Why'd you use a knife on him?
What do you care?
He's dead. I did it.
Now leave me alone.
She's lying.
She's protecting someone.
The question is, who?
We still haven't found any
connection between Gloria and Moss.
I don't even think she
knew the guy.
Hold on. Wait a minute.
Gloria said Marchek
gave her HIV.
Moss had HIV.
Did CSU get everything
from her medicine cabinet?
Yeah.
Viracept. It was prescribed by a Dr.
Williams at the State Street Clinic.
Crime lab reports Marchek and Moss
both got their meds from the same place.
Gloria's friend, Louise,
works there as a social worker.
How much you wanna bet she
counseled Marchek and Moss?
Check the phone records
and meds on all three...
and run a background check.
Then bring her in.
How long has she been waiting?
Twenty minutes.
Doesn't look too rattled.
She brought work with her from
the clinic. Now that's dedication.
She's also got a permit for
a 9mm Glock.
Finished?
My work is never finished.
Seems a lot like our job.
Well, in your job,
don't you sometimes win?
What I meant was don't you
people say that...
HIV is no longer a
death sentence?
Yes, we do.
We can treat it,
but we can't cure it.
We were hoping that you could
tie up some loose ends for us.
What kind of loose ends?
Thomas Marchek, Craig Moss...
they were patients of
yours, weren't they? Yes.
Gloria Palmera?
Yes. Yeah.
Gloria confessed to murdering
Marchek and Moss.
She did?
After she tried to kill
herself last night.
Oh, God.
Is she all right?
Well, she's weak.
She's confused.
She wasn't really making
a whole lot of sense.
That's because she was trying
to protect me.
Tell us.
I counseled Thomas Marchek
for four months.
And he told me he wasn't
being intimate with anyone.
And then one session
he let it slip.
Bragged about his girlfriend's
insatiable appetite for him.
I told him to tell Gloria
to come in to be tested.
Did she?
No.
He kept making excuses about why
he hadn't told her. So I told her.
At first she wouldn't
believe it...
but then when the test results
came back positive...
she finally saw him
for the bastard that he was.
Why did you kill him?
He murdered her with his lies.
That's why.
And Moss?
Why would I give him another chance
to do that again to somebody else?
It's bad enough to be
raped, Detective...
but when the rapist has HIV, he
leaves you with a daily reminder...
that'll last you for the
rest of your life.
I know, I was raped
nine years ago.
You're HIV-positive?
No, I have AIDS.
I'm dying.
Drugs don't work for
me anymore.
I wasn't gonna let them kill
another woman.
You think the Grand Jury will
indict her?
She did murder two men.
Will she live long enough
to serve her sentence?
You okay?
You wanna go grab a drink?
No, I should go home.
Sure?
Yeah.
Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.
You will.
Elliot...
how'd it go with the doc?
She said the bandage probably kept most
of Gloria's blood from entering the wound.
Just in case, she gave me a
month's supply of antiretrovirals.
Then what?
Wait and see.
That's gonna make for a
hell of a month.
Listen, if there's anything...
I got it covered.
Well, you got my number.
Captain?
Thanks.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org